Book I – Island of Dreams
=========================

Chapter I
---------

*Bang, bang, bang* went Barrie-Bear's stick on the solid stump of an oak tree that had been recently felled. Barrie-Bear was a portly character, covered from head to foot in soft pitch-black fur with two round brown eyes sticking out like organ stops from his almost-square head. He had an aristocratic air about him, and he felt very much in charge, rather like a conductor of a large orchestra.

"If you will all take your places and keep quiet," he said, "we will start the meeting."

There was a lot of activity among the animals and a lot of whispering going on, with considerable speculation as to the purpose of this get-together. Barrie-Bear cleared his throat several times and, pulling himself up to his full height (which was at most 3 ft 6.5 in.), started to speak.

"We are here," he said, "to discuss our future, which at the present time is, I feel, in some jeopardy."

He was pleased with his opening sentence, and, looking round and seeing an attentive and seemingly interested audience, he felt unusually confident, and continued. "The countryside is slowly but surely being overrun by a man-made concrete jungle of roads, factories, houses and bingo halls. "We," he went on in a serious tone, "are gradually being evicted from our own way of life, and if we continue as we are, we shall be forced out of our very existence. This situation cannot and will not be allowed to develop." His voice trembled a little as he continued. "I propose that we form a committee of interested folk to look into the possibility of finding ways to safeguard ourselves and our families."

There was a widespread murmur of 'Hear, hear', and the meeting was then thrown open for general discussion. "Had the chairman any particular thoughts in mind regarding a possible solution?" asked Mr Rabbit. "Yes, I have," answered Barrie-Bear, "but it will need careful planning and a great deal of hard work by everybody, if it is to succeed."

The very thought of mental effort and hard work filled Jason with horror, and while he had been enjoying the proceedings so far, he suddenly felt very tired. He decided that he would lie down and make himself as invisible as a large and somewhat overweight Labrador can be. He was grateful to Heigh who, if he kept still, would afford him some protection against the Chairman's piercing eyes. He lay down behind him, closed his eyes, and hoped that he would not be noticed. In fact, he was; Barrie-Bear had already spotted him, but decided that Jason would not nor could not contribute anything worthwhile at the meeting anyway, and would probably be better left to snooze.

"What I have in mind," Barrie-Bear went on, "is to set up our own small community away from our present civilisation and so-called progress." At this point he was a little uncertain as to how far he would go with pressing home his plan. First he wanted to gauge the reaction of the others to his idea in principle. He was met with a rather stony silence, and, as at most meetings, no one wanted to break the ice.

Mr Owl was looking very serious, blinking his eyes heavily. If he was honest with himself, he was a little jealous of Barrie-Bear, who was stealing all the limelight. Barrie-Bear was aware of this possibility and this was why he invited comments from the others. "You are very experienced, very wise, Mr Owl," he said. "How do you feel about the idea?" Mr Owl blinked very slowly, lifted his head and looked slowly round at the faces eagerly awaiting his statement. Everyone had a very healthy respect for Mr Owl and his family – for many years he had assumed responsibility for advising on matters great and small, and now was the time when his words had to be chosen carefully.

Like Barrie-Bear, he had become increasingly disillusioned with modern society, and he wished that *he* had been the one to instigate the proceedings. However, he knew that this was no time to allow his pride to stand in the way of their salvation, and so after a long throat-clearing, he started to speak. "Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen," he said, "we are faced with probably the most far-reaching decision that I can ever remember." He felt quite dramatic, and never more sincere. "Our whole way of life has changed completely over the past ten or 20 years, and unless we are to be swallowed up in a world where the quality of life is no longer of any importance, then we must take the matter into our own hands and do as our Chairman suggests. In principle, his idea is a good one, and one that, had I been a few years younger, I would have put forward myself. I formally propose that we should seek to establish our own community and return to a way of life that would mean happiness for us all. How and where you do this will be up to the younger members among us to decide, but I will support you in everything you do," he said.

Barrie-Bear felt a sense of great achievement after Mr Owl had finished, as he knew that, if Mr Owl supported his idea, then everyone else would do likewise. "You have heard Owl's proposal," said the Chairman. "All those in favour please raise your right hand," he instructed. There was a forest of hands held high in the air, and all but one were counted. "How are you going to vote, Jason?" asked Barrie-Bear. There was no reply other than a gentle snoring sound coming from behind Heigh. "I suppose he should be given the chance to vote," said Barrie-Bear. "Would you kindly give Jason a nudge?" "Alright," said Heigh, only too pleased to be able to move at last. He did a couple of circles round Jason, and, as he did so, flicked him with his long tail.

"Ow!" said Jason. "What was that?" "Wake up," said Heigh, "the Chairman is speaking to you." What a nuisance, thought Jason, I do object to being woken so rudely on a summer's afternoon – I wonder what Barrie-Bear wants me for. He yawned, raised his head and rose lazily to his feet. "I don't suppose," said Barrie-Bear, "that you have heard one word of what has been going on?" "No," replied Jason, who for all his faults always spoke the truth. Barrie wondered if it was worth saying everything all over again, and decided quickly that it wasn't. "Well, it's your own fault, if you don't agree with what has been decided," he said rather crossly. "Eh? What?" said Jason, suddenly realizing that he had missed something of importance. "Get your friend Heigh to tell you after the meeting. The vote has been carried unanimously," said Barrie-Bear, "and therefore we must now go away and think of the ways and means to put our plan into operation. The meeting is now adjourned."

Mrs Rabbit, though she had spent the entire afternoon knitting for her forthcoming offspring, had nevertheless been listening attentively to the proceedings. Although she had no doubts about the idea in principle, she, like all good mothers, was thinking about how she and her family were all going to manage if, as would seem likely, they would have to move. As it was a hot day, and having done a lot of baking the previous afternoon, she thought that it would be a nice idea to have a tea party. She had a quick word with Mr Rabbit, who agreed, and together they went over to the home of Mr and Mrs Beaver and their three young sons, Rush, Rory and Tear. "Would you all like to come and have tea with us?" asked Mrs Rabbit. "Thank you," replied Mrs Beaver, "we would like that very much, and perhaps we can have a talk about the meeting this afternoon." Mr and Mrs Mouse were also pleased to come, as was old Mrs Squirrel, Mr Weasel and Mr Robin. The Water Rat family unfortunately had to return home as the twins, Jimmy and Timmy, felt rather tired, and Mrs Water Rat said she ought to put them to bed. Barrie-Bear declined the invitation, saying that he had a great many important things to attend to – among them no doubt his tummy – and was seen to wander off, with his head held high and looking pleased with the afternoon's activities.

Chapter II - The Tea Party
--------------------------

Mr and Mrs Rabbit lived in a charming little house at the end of the forest with a very pretty garden that Mr Rabbit was particularly proud of. He grew only flowers, because he found that, when he decided to grow vegetables one year, they gradually disappeared and he put on considerably more weight. The house itself was quite small, with just two rooms downstairs and two up – plenty of room for Mr and Mrs Rabbit, but a little cramped when it came to entertaining friends. As it was a fine evening, however, Mrs Rabbit decided to serve tea on the lawn. She was very house-proud, and although she enjoyed the company of other people, she didn't relish the thought of her nice clean house being invaded by her not-so-clean friends – especially Mr Weasel, who was a chimney sweep by trade and who seriously believed that washing yourself too often brought bad luck. Everybody liked him, but he did not get too many invitations to other people's houses. Mr Robin, too, was not very fussy about wiping his feet when he came indoors and he had a habit of scattering crumbs all over the place when eating his food. Still, he was well liked. He was extremely clever, and when he was not delivering the mail, he could always be found in his workshop inventing some new gadget or other. He was quite mechanically minded, and didn't believe in having someone in to do a job which he could do just as well if not better himself.

Old Mrs Squirrel was, in every sense, a lovely person. Poor Mr Squirrel had died several years ago during a particularly severe winter when food was in very short supply, and all he had in the last few weeks he had given to Mrs Squirrel and some of the young children. She was very kind and happily took on the job of nurse to all who needed her. She lived alone and was only too pleased to be asked to help if someone was ill. She was a very quiet person and, unlike many of her friends, a very good listener and spoke only when there was something worth saying. Consequently, she had learned much during her lifetime, and was able to put her knowledge to good use when the occasion demanded. Little did she know that her talents were soon to be put to very good use indeed.

The Beavers were the first to arrive. They lived close to the river and, as their name implies, they were very hard working. Mr Beaver was an excellent builder – most of the homes of his friends and colleagues had been built by him. He was a very busy person and didn't normally have very much time to spare for social visits, but this one was different because he was only too aware of the need for his services if a new community was to be formed. Mrs Beaver was a busy little person too, and with three growing youngsters to look after, her time was very valuable.

Mr and Mrs Rabbit went out to welcome the Beavers at the gate, and suggested that they ought to sit in the garden. Rush, Rory and Tear asked if they could go and play in the forest, and Mrs Beaver said that they could as long as they didn’t stay too long.

Mrs Squirrel was next to come, closely followed by Mr Weasel and Mr Robin, who were often to be seen together. They heard the others in the garden, and Mrs Rabbit, who had seen them from inside the house, called to them to go and join the rest of the party on the lawn.

Mrs Rabbit had laid a large tablecloth on the grass on which were cakes, sandwiches, fruit and jelly, and in the centre was a large seed cake, which took Mr Robin's eye in particular – he was unusually fond of seed cake. Everyone was invited to help themselves, and while they were busy enjoying all the food, Mrs Rabbit came out with iced lemon juice.

Just as they were all beginning to feel rather full, Mrs Beaver, who was starting to get anxious about the boys, said, "Somebody is coming through the forest." They all listened.

Certainly, whoever it was was in a hurry. They could hear the undergrowth snapping, and the dry sticks crackling under the weight of what seemed to be an elephant.

"Who on earth can it be?" said Mr Rabbit, who had gone to the gate to get a closer view. "Why, it's Heigh," he said, as a heavy horse-like figure appeared through the trees. "You're in a hurry, Heigh, where are you going?"

Heigh was panting and could hardly get his words out. "It's Rory,” he said. "Are Mr and Mrs Beaver with you?"

"Yes," said Mr Rabbit, "but what has happened?"

"Well,” said Heigh, "I was just out for a quick canter in the forest, when I thought I heard a cry for help. I stood quite still, which as you know I find very difficult, and there it was again – a faint cry of 'help!' I galloped off in the direction of the sound and soon met with Mr Mole. He was pleased to see me, and told me that Rory had met with a bad accident, and thought he had broken his leg. He told me that you were having tea with Mrs Rabbit – and asked me to come and tell you. I came as quickly as I could." Although he was of course very sorry for little Rory, Heigh was nevertheless delighted to be such an important messenger.

"Oh my goodness,” said Mr Rabbit, who had now been joined by all the others.

"We must go to him straight away,” said Mrs Beaver.

"Wait!" said old Mrs Squirrel. With an air of authority she continued: "There will be things we shall need. I think it would be sensible if Heigh would take Mr and Mrs Beaver to Rory so that you can be with him, and the rest of us can follow on with a stretcher, as we shall have to be careful in moving him.”

Heigh was already waiting to go and called to the Beavers to jump on his back. No sooner were they on it than he was off, going as fast as his legs would carry him back through the forest.

"How shall we know how to find you?" shouted Mr Rabbit.

"I will come back for you,” gasped Heigh, now nearly out of earshot.

As soon as they were gone, Mrs Squirrel got down to organising the others into some sort of medical party. "Mr Weasel, would you go and find something we could use as a stretcher? And perhaps, Mr Robin, you could go and find Barrie-Bear and tell him what has happened. He would be rather put out if he was not informed of such an important event.”

Mr Robin flew off saying that he wouldn't be long, and Mr Weasel hurried to find the stretcher.

"Now, Mrs Rabbit,” continued Mrs Squirrel, “we had better go indoors to find some bandages and blankets.”

It did not take them long to find the things they required, and as they came out into the garden, they could see Mr Robin and Barrie-Bear hurrying up the forest path. Well, Mr Robin was hurrying, but Barrie-Bear had to keep stopping to put down the large bundle he was carrying.

"Do hurry up,” said Robin, "Mrs Squirrel and Mrs Rabbit will be anxious to get to young Rory.”

"I can't go any faster," puffed Barrie-Bear, "and anyway, you haven't got anything to carry," he complained.

"What is in that large bundle?" asked Robin.

"Never you mind," answered Barrie-Bear indignantly, “but it is no good going on a rescue operation without the correct accoutrements.”

Robin had no idea what accoutrements were, and not wishing to show his ignorance, he merely said, "Oh,” and left it at that.

Soon they arrived at Mrs Rabbit's house and found Mrs Rabbit and old Mrs Squirrel ready to leave.

"Can't we just have a short rest?" panted Barrie-Bear. "And a little liquid nourishment wouldn't go amiss," he added.

Mrs Rabbit poured Barrie-Bear a glass of iced lemon for which he was grateful, and while he was drinking it, Mr Weasel appeared pulling a small toboggan behind him.

"Not a very suitable time of year for Winter sports," muttered Barrie-Bear, unaware of Mr Weasel's inventiveness.

Mr Weasel thought the remark in rather bad taste, as he had used his alert brain to good effect. He explained to Barrie-Bear that he had fixed a wheel to the underside of the toboggan at one end so that Rory could be tied in position and pulled along to wherever it was decided to take him. Old Mrs Squirrel thought it was a marvellous idea and said that it was high time they were on their way to the scene of the accident. The others agreed and together they started off through the forest looking and listening for Heigh.

Barrie-Bear started to fall behind the others, owing to his bundle of 'accoutrements', and he was beginning to feel rather hot and bothered. He called to Mr Weasel to wait for him, and Mr Weasel, who was quick to make suggestions, asked Barrie-Bear whether he would like to put his bundle on his toboggan. Barrie-Bear thought that was a first-class idea and wished he had thought of it himself. Mr Weasel secured the bundle on to the make-shift stretcher and together they set off in pursuit of the others.

They didn't have far to go, for when they reached a small clearing in the trees, they found that Heigh had returned to lead them to Rory.

"A bit early or late for tobogganing," said Heigh to Mr Weasel when he saw the stretcher, "or is there some snow around that nobody has told me about?"

"Of course not,” replied Mr Weasel. "Happy Christmas."

"Happy Christmas?" said Heigh.

"Oh never mind." Mr Weasel was getting impatient and could see no point in prolonging this stupid discussion.

"How is Rory?" asked Mrs Squirrel.

"Well," said Heigh, "I suppose you could say that he is as well as can be expected in the circumstances; he seems to be in quite some pain, though, and I think we had better go to him if everyone is ready."

Everyone was ready and Heigh went on ahead with Barrie-Bear bringing up the rear, muttering to himself something about four-legged animals having an unfair advantage over those of us with only two. However, the journey was not too long and soon they were reunited with Mr and Mrs Beaver, Rush, Rory and Tear.

Chapter III - Happenings at Oak Tree Glen
-----------------------------------------

"Thank goodness you've arrived,” said Mrs Beaver, who was sitting on the ground with Rory’s head lying comfortably in her lap. "Rory is in a great deal of pain.”

"We will soon have him well again," said Mrs Squirrel, who was now very much in her element. "Do you have those blankets and bandages, Mrs Rabbit?” she asked as she bent down beside Rory to inspect the damage.

"I have everything you could possibly need,” butted in Barrie-Bear.

"You?" Mrs Squirrel looked surprised.

"Most definitely," answered Barrie-Bear. "What else would I be humping round in that large bundle, which Mr Weasel kindly offered to assist me with? Tell me if I've forgotten anything."

Mrs Owl and Mrs Rabbit unfastened the bundle and opened it out on the ground.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Mrs Rabbit. "I never realized that you knew about such things."

"Madam," replied Barrie-Bear, "one has to be prepared for any contingency."

"Yes – well," said Mrs Rabbit, who felt she was getting rather out of her depth. "I think we had better attend to the patient."

Mrs Owl had already helped herself to the blankets and a small pillow. She asked Mr Weasel to bring the stretcher over to where Rory was lying, and when in position, she made up a little bed for him. Very gently, they lifted Rory on to it, and when he was comfortable, Mrs Owl asked him to tell everyone exactly what had happened.

It transpired that when the three boys went off into the forest to play, they decided to do a bit of exploration. They had been in the forest several times before, but there was one part that they had heard a lot about but had never ventured into. The place was known locally as Oak Tree Glen and everyone said that only a fool or a brave man would ever go there. Consequently, it was always deserted, but as they thought there was safety in numbers, Rush, Rory and Tear decided to ignore all previous warnings and explore forbidden territory. It was a very dark area of the wood, and in some places they had to bend almost double to get through the low branches that seemed quite determined to stop their progress as if in warning of what lay ahead.

After what seemed a very long time, they arrived at a circular clearing in the trees where they were able to stand up straight and take account of their surroundings. The clearing was carpeted with soft green moss and, with the tall trees surrounding it, they had the feeling that they were in some sort of natural prison. It was certainly very eerie, and Tear thought that they should get out before any harm came to them – but Rush and Rory, who didn't feel all that comfortable themselves, decided that, having come this far, they may as well establish whether Oak Tree Glen lived up to its evil reputation.

Although it was a bit spooky, they could not hear or see anything that was in any way frightening. It was while they were beginning to feel quite brave, and about to explore further, that they heard a strange noise. It had been so still that had a pin been dropped it would have sounded like an oak tree being felled. They listened intently, and whatever was making the noise was coming slowly and stealthily in their direction. Quite suddenly, it was all quiet again and the three boys thought that whatever it was hadn't realised they were there and had gone. But just as they were feeling more than a little relieved, it started again – a sort of rumbling noise, but, strangely, it was not coming through the wood; not one stick or twig crackled. It really was a mystery, and soon that mystery would surely reveal itself, as the source of the noise was now very close. The boys were terrified and decided that they would be safer off the ground. Together they clambered up one of the trees that ringed the glen, and, having made themselves as comfortable as they could, they sat and waited.

They hardly dared to breathe and hoped that the Thing wouldn't think of looking up.

"Look," said Rory, pointing to the edge of the clearing, and almost as he spoke, the branch on which he was sitting snapped and sent him tumbling to the ground. He landed with a loud thump. Rush and Tear wondered whether they should scramble down to help or wait and see what was coming first. They decided to stay put – Rory was lying quite still but they could see that he was breathing normally, and in the circumstances they thought that they would play a waiting game.

What Rory had seen was a movement in the ground at the edge of the clearing, and slowly the green carpet of moss began to heave. With a sudden final movement, the ground opened, and out of the earth appeared a small black face, its tiny nose twitching and sniffing the air. Rush and Tear could hardly believe their eyes – after what seemed an age of terror, the Thing turned out to be nothing more sinister than a very grubby little mole.

They quickly came down from the trees and went over to Rory, who had missed all the excitement. Mole extracted himself from his underground tunnel, stretched and shook himself. As he did so, he was momentarily lost in a cloud of dust, but once he’d cleaned himself up a bit, he saw the Beaver boys and realised that something was wrong. He hurried over and said, "Hello – I am Mole. It isn't often I ever see anyone when I burrow in Oak Tree Glen. What are you doing here?"

Rush told Mole what had happened, and when he said how frightened they had been, Mole laughed so much that Tear thought he would choke. He was a most friendly little character, and he was very concerned about Rory, who was still lying quite still and pale.

They were unable to tell how badly he was hurt, but they realised that they had better not move him. On the other hand, if they went to get help, the others would then find out where they had been and that would mean getting told off, or worse. After some consultation, they decided that if you break the rules then you should expect to be punished, and because they were naturally worried about Rory, they asked Mole if he would help.

"Of course I will," said Mole. "I can tunnel my way out of the wood quicker than you can walk. I will soon get a message to Mr and Mrs Beaver." No sooner had he spoken than he was off across the glen and quite suddenly vanished down his hole. A slight rumbling sound and he was gone.

It was soon afterwards that Mole was nearly frightened to death by what he thought was an earthquake, which of course later turned out to be Heigh who was clumping about overhead on his afternoon ramble. As soon as it was safe to surface, he poked his head up through the pine needles and was able to squeak loud enough to attract his attention.

Chapter IV - The Journey that took them by Storm
------------------------------------------------

Rory was comfortably arranged on the stretcher and Mrs. Owl thought that it was probable that his leg was broken, and certainly he was badly bruised which meant that he had to be moved very gently and all bumps and jolts avoided at all costs. Barrie-Bear directed operations and thought that, as Mr. Weasel had constructed the stretcher, it should be him that ought to pull it. Mr. Weasel thought that it was a great responsibility, but he would do it to the best of his ability - Barrie—Bear made sure that all his 'accoutrements' were all bundled up again, but unfortunately he forgot to realise that, as Rory was now occupying the stretcher, he would have to carry the accoutrements all the way home himself. However, being a rather lazy bear, but one who always tried to find the easy way out, he turned to Heigh who was getting rather fidgety and said, "I say, Heigh, you haven't got anything but yourself to carry, how about you taking my accoutrements home on your back?" "Certainly," said Heigh, anxious to get off, "but make sure you strap them on firmly or they will slip off if I go along at my usual speed." Barrie—Bear asked Mr. Beaver if he would give him a hand to load up, and together they threw Barrie-Bear's bundle on to Heigh's back, and after considerable difficulty in making him stand still, they eventually secured it firmly and were satisfied that it would withstand Heigh's frolics.

After the heat of the day, they started off home in the pleasant cooling air of the evening. Heigh led the party, and he was particularly useful in trampling down the undergrowth - thus giving the stretcher bearer a smooth path on which to transport young Rory. All went well for about half an hour or so, and then Barrie-Bear who was already some way behind the others, shouted for everyone to stop.

Heigh came to an abrupt halt, and so did Mr. Weasel and all the others. They waited for Barrie-Bear to catch up and asked him if he could be a little bit quicker. "No," he said, "I can't - a bear cannot go too fast because his fur is so heavy and with all the responsibility I have to bear - hah! hah! that's supposed to be a joke - oh well, never mind - I just cannot go as fast as you all can."

While they were all thinking that he was rather stupid though very lovable, the sky became very dark. Great black clouds were build- ing up in the sky and Heigh's ears started to twitch. He thought he had heard a sinister sound, but didn't say anything to the others in case his fears were unfounded. He didn't have to, because quite suddenly heavy raindrops beguan to fall, and with them a frightening clap of thunder. Barrie—Bear said "Pardon," as he thought his tummy had rumbled, and then realising that it was thunder, said, "Have no fear - I always come prepared for such emergencies - if you would be so kind as to help me unload my accoutrements, you will see what I mean."

Mr. Beaver and Mr. Weasel took the large pack off Heigh's back and placed it on the ground. Barrie-Bear went over and un- fastened something that was rolled up at one end of it. He spread it out on the ground, and it soon became obvious that it was a small tent. In a matter of moments he had erected it and invited everyone inside to shelter from the rain which was now coming down in bucket- fuls. Mr. Weasel wheeled Rory in first, then came Mrs. Owl, Mrs. Rabbit, Mrs. Beaver and the other two boys, Mr. Beaver and finally Barrie-Bear himself. Poor Heigh - the tent was not tall enough for him so he had to stand outside. So as not to hurt his feelings too much, Barrie—Bear asked him to keep watch and let them know how the storm was progressing.

Heigh felt very important indeed — besides which he was having a very pleasant cold shower - just the thing on a hot summer's day. The tent was, to say the least, very crowded, but at least it was dry and all the occupants enjoyed a feeling of safety with some sort of waterproof cover over their heads. It rained and it rained and it rained. Inside the tent, it was getting decidedly warm and rather stuffy. Barrie—Bear poked his nose out through the tent opening but rapidly came to the conclusion that it was preferable to be stuffy and warm than cold and very damp.

Heigh, who relished the rain at first, gradually began to feel more than a little 'put-out' and it was just about the last straw when the tree under which he was sheltering was suddenly struck by light— ning - "Funny," he thought, "but I seem to remember being told not to shelter under a tree during a thunderstorm - ah well at least I am unharmed, and then realising what might have happened and how miraculously he had survived, he galloped off as fast as his legs would go to a safer environment.

The occupants of the tent were beginning to get impatient — after an hour of continuous rain, there was no sign of it easing, and a small stream which ran close by to where they had pitched, was fast becoming a raging torrent. What should they do? There was a buzz of excitement within but nobody seemed to have any constructive ideas. Rory was the problem as he was unable to walk, and Mrs. Beaver was beginning to get particularly anxious. Barrie—Bear had made himself a small spy-hole in the tent fabric, and he was able to see the water beginning to stand in ever-increasing puddles all over the forest. It would not be long before all the land around would be flooded and he knew that someone had to take some quick action to avert disaster. Although he was rather slow in his physical movements, he had an alert brain and this was now racing to come up with some notion to help them over their present predicament.

Two ideas quickly came to mind, the first was to seek the aid of the trees, but as quickly as it came, he dismissed the idea - whoever could imagine old Mrs. Owl, let alone Rory on a stretcher, climbing and sitting on a tree branch for goodness knows how long. No, the answer was a raft. It would need to be of very simple construction as time was against them, but Mr. Weasel, he was sure, would be able to come up with an effective practical solution. He sat down inside the tent, and after clearing his throat, he outlined his idea to the others. Mr. Weasel was most excited about it all - never before had he involved himself with floating objects and to think that on him depended the lives of himself and his friends, filled him with pride and a sense of responsibility he had never felt before. Mrs. Beaver, Mrs. Rabbit and old Mrs. Owl did not, however, share in the general enthusiasm which prevailed, and could only think of all the dreadful things which could but probably wouldn't happen.

Mr. Robin, who had been unusually silent for a very long time, suddenly bent his head over to one side and then the other. He had heard something and said, "What's that noise?" They all listened. They heard a distinct splashing sound of someone or something making their way through the water. Barrie-Bear put his eye to the spy hole and began to laugh - a sort of deep-throated chuckle which took everyone by surprise. He very seldom laughed - life was a serious business -- but he just couldn't help himself. What he saw was a very bedraggled Labrador in the shape of Jason slowly and laboriously plodding his way towards them through the floods. Jason couldn't bear to get wet, and now not only was he soaked through, he was absolutely filthy dirty as well. He couldn't have looked more miserable - his tail hung down and his eyes were just begging someone to help him.

Without thinking, Barrie-Bear shouted, "Jason - came over here, we're in the tent." Jason's face lit up and his tail wagged until it nearly dropped off. He pushed his way through the tent opening, stood for a few seconds, and shook. "Jason!" they all cried together. But it was too late. Water flew everywhere, and the smell of Jason's wet fur made the overall atmosphere almost unbearable.

The rain was easing slightly but the water was still rising, so Barrie-Bear decided that the construction of a raft must still proceed before they became marooned. He asked Mr. Weasel if he had worked out a plan for building the raft, and Mr. Weasel replied that he had and that he would want the support of everyone except the Ladies if it were to be ready in time. He outlined his plan to Mr. Beaver, who after all, was quite accustomed to building things, and Mr. Beaver thought that if they all pulled together, it would take no longer than an hour. Bearing in mind that they didn't have a single tool between them other than a small knife, a pair of scissors and some bandages which were all part of Barrie-Bear's accoutrements, it wasn't going to be easy, but quite simply, all they required was a floating platform large enough to accommodate the occupants of the tent.

Mr. Weasel ventured outside to do a preliminary survey, and it was fortunate that some trees had been recently felled, and the trunks had been cut up into manageable lengths. He also spotted a clump of rushes and was quickly satisfied that he had what he needed to design the raft. He went back inside to Mr. Beaver, and suggested that they placed about 8 of the tree trunks on the ground and bound them together with the aid of ropes made from the rushes. Mr. Beaver thought the plan a good one, but pointed out that the water was still rising dangerously. They had no time to spare, and everyone had to help. Mrs. Rabbit, Mrs. Beaver and Rush and Tear went off, armed with scissors to cut the longest rushes they could find. Meanwhile, Mr. Weasel, Mr. Rabbit, Mr. Beaver and Mr. Robin made their way towards the stack of logs and were able to roll them on the ground. Barrie-Bear decided that he would sit inside the tent and direct operations and of course, by this time, Jason had curled up and gone to sleep. Nobody minded because Barrie—Bear was not at all practical and was usually more of a hindrance than a help when it came to making things, and by the time Jason had been prodded into some sort of action, they would probably have been drowned.

The rush cutters did a splendid job and in a matter of ten minutes or so came back with armfuls of long rushes, which they subsequently made into small bundles, bent them into loops and threaded another bundle through the loop. By twisting and twisting the rushes and by adding more and more bundles, they soon made a really strong rope. Mr. Beaver asked them to make at least four, and when they were done, Mr. Beaver and Mr. Weasel threaded them under and over the tree trunks to bind them firmly together. In twenty minutes the raft was ready for launching.

The water was now within a few inches of where they were working, and Barrie-Bear ordered Rory to be placed on the raft first. At least it wasn't raining quite so hard, and they just had time to dismantle the tent and get aboard. Jason was very disgruntled at having to move but thought that, however uncomfortable the raft may be, it was infinitely preferable to another soaking. Barrie-Bear asked Mr. Beaver if it would be possible to erect the tent on the raft, and Mr. Beaver thought it was a very good idea. With the aid of the bandages, they were able to tie the sides down to the timbers and position the tent poles into holes in the logs which they dug out with their knife. Just as they were admiring their handywork, there was a sudden lurch and almost at the same time, a big splash.

Someone had fallen overboard, and of course, it had to be Jason. He was furious — he had just dried out nicely and was looking forward to a peaceful sleep on the water, when his legs suddenly gave way, and he was thrown over the side. Until he was actually out of his depth in the water, he hadn't realised quite how well he could swim, and far from scrambling back on board, he began to really enjoy him— self. Barrie-Bear and the others could hardly believe their eyes — never had they seen Jason quite so active or quite so happy.

The rain was still pouring down and other than being able to see trees and a few tall bushes, they might as well have been in mid-ocean. For some time, the raft just drifted and after they had passed the same clump of trees for the third time, it became obvious that they were just going round in circles. They had no sail as such and no other means of steering a steady course, and Mr. Weasel, after a little head—scratching, suggested that a rope be thrown to Jason who could tow them in more or less a straight line to safety. They were able to twist some of the remaining bandages together and fasten one end to the raft, and the other end they tied to Jason's collar. Never before had Jason been of very much use to anyone, but now his moment of triumph had come. He swam with every bit of strength in his body and once the initial pull was accomplished, he was able to maintain a steady rhythm which made for slow but steady progress.

It was fortunate that a following wind came to his rescue, as after about half an hour, the strain was beginning to tell. With the water becoming increasingly choppy in the wind, he could barely see where he was going and then a shout suddenly brought him to his senses. It was Heigh who had found himself a pleasant spot on top of a hillock which was protruding out of the flood. He could see Jason clearly and shouted to him to swim over to his little island. Jason took on a new lease of life and swam for all he was worth.

It was further than he had thought, but in half an hour, he was there. Heigh was able to paddle through the water and hold the raft steady with his nose while everyone disembarked. The storm would soon be over as patches of blue sky were now in evidence above. As quickly as it had started, the rain ceased and everyone was delighted to be able to stretch their legs and leave the cramped and uncomfortable accommodation which they had endured so long on the raft. The island which Heigh had found was ideal for a short stop while they waited for the waters to recede, and after the sun had come out, the ground dried out remarkably quickly and so did they. Everyone was tired and poor Jason had collapsed as soon as he was ashore and was now in a deep sleep with a 'look what I've done' sort of a smile on his face. Barrie-Bear thought that they should all follow suit, and after a few brief preparations, the entire population was soon in the land of nod.

Young Rory was the first to awake - mainly because of the pain in his leg which had obviously suffered badly during the boat trip, but when he opened his eyes, he could see the old familiar forest again with now just a few low-lying places still covered with water. "We’re home," he shouted, "look!" Quite suddenly the whole place was a scene of great excitement, and just as suddenly there was complete silence, and after a while a sad sound of deep sobbing. The awful truth had dawned. The little island which had been their saviour not many hours ago, was in fact only a stone's throw from the area around which were all their permanent homes. With the exception of old Mrs. Owl and Mr. Robin, whose houses were up in the trees, the remainder had been completely flooded.

Sadly, they picked themselves up and resolutely made their way towards Mr. & Mrs. Beaver's home. It had completely disappeared without trace. At one time, a cosy little ramshackle dwelling, all that now remained were a few soggy reeds embedded in a morass of mud. Mr. & Mrs. Beaver were heartbroken and at once Mrs. Rabbit said that they must come and live with them until Mr. Beaver could build a new home. The dejected band of friends trudged on with heavy hearts on legs that would scarcely move. It was decided to make for Mrs. Rabbit's house first, as this at least was on slightly rising ground. They found it without difficulty, and although the ﬂood water had been and gone, its out- ward appearance did not seem too bad. The garden was a shambles and much of the fencing had been washed away, but to everyone's surprise, smoke was bellowing out from the chimney. At first they thought it was on fire, but on closer inspection, they were able to see that the windows were open, and that somebody was actually in the house.

When they actually arrived at the door, they found Mr. & Mrs. Water Rat and the twins busily working. They were so busy in fact that they did not hear the return of the others until Barrie-Bear had one of his throat-clearing sessions. "Why, there you are" said Mrs. Water Rat, "where on earth have you all been? We have been terribly worried about you all." So much had happened since the meeting in the forest that they hardly knew where to start, but as briefly as he could, Barrie—Bear outlined the events of the past few hours "How perfectly dreadful!" exclaimed Mrs. Water Rat, "what are we going to do?" Someone cleared his throat, and began, "It is essential that we all keep our heads and work out priorities" said Barrie-Bear. "As terrible as things may seem at this moment, it is an ill wind that blows nobody any good and perhaps we can turn our sorrow into new hope for the future." "Immediately, however, we need to see to young Rory first, and then ensure that everyone is properly and comfortably housed. I would suggest that Mrs. Owl, Mrs. Rabbit, Mrs. Beaver and Mrs. Water Rat remain here to finish clearing up and to put Rory to bed, while the rest of us go on a tour of inspection to see if any further serious damage has been done."

Barrie-Bear's pronouncement seemed to meet with everyone's approval. With a brief good-bye, he set off with Mr. Weasel, Mr. Beaver and Mr. Robin to see what other damage if any had occurred. Jason decided that he had done more than his fair share and as he had no house of his own to worry about he curled up on Mrs. Rabbit's hearth—rug and fell asleep. Heigh decided to go along, he had already inspected his stable which he found still standing and unharmed. His supply of oats had become rather soggy but after spreading them out in the sun he thought they would soon dry out. Barrie-Bear's residence as he always referred to it, was in everyone else's eyes little more than a tumble-down shack and nobody would have been too upset if that too had been washed away, but as it was pleasantly situated on rising ground it would probably have with- stood the thunderstorm and it certainly would not have flooded.

Sure enough when they arrived there nothing had really changed, it just looked rather pathetic. It had been reasonably well thatched before they left but the heavy rain and sudden gusts of wind had ripped much of it away and what was left was hanging limply on the somewhat flimsy network of roof members. The walls were made of mud and straw and being some eighteen inches thick were only slightly eroded where the rain water had gushed off the diminished roof. Barrie- Bear entered via a small oak doorway and went straight to a large chest which was secured by a heavy padlock, He reached for the key which he kept secretly hidden, unfastened the lock and lifted the lid. He made several grunts of approval and closed the chest and locked it again. "What do you keep in that box of yours that is so secret?" asked Mr. Beaver. Everyone knew about Barrie's box but nobody knew of its contents. "Aha" replied Barrie—Bear, "I am unable to dis- close that information" he said "other than it contains some family heirlooms which are personal to me but not personal to anyone else." In fact what was so personal and valuable to Barrie-Bear was only a quantity of sentimental junk, a jar containing some of his mother's fur, a burst balloon which was thought to have belonged to Eeyore, an old donkey friend of his father, several empty honey jars and a few faded photographs which Christopher Robin had taken of him and his parents when he was very small. The others thought that from the way he spoke it was full of valuable jewels and gold coins but accepted the fact that they were not to be allowed to share the secret.

"Everything appears to be in order" said Mr. Beaver after an embarrassing silence, "except for one or two patches on the roof which I can put right for you in a day or two. We had better go and see Mr. Weasel's house next." "Very well" said Barrie—Bear who asked for just a minute to have some light refreshment. He had a few nuts and berries in the cupboard and hastily had a few mouthfuls of each just to keep him going. Only Mr. Weasel himself could get into his house, he disappeared down a small tunnel half-way up a bank and left Barrie—Bear, Mr. Beaver and Mr. Robin standing at the entrance. Mr. Robin thought that he might as well pop across the wood to reassure himself about his own property and with a back in a minute gesture, he flew off over the trees.

Mr. Weasel found the going rather more difficult than he thought it would be. In normal times the burrow in which he lived was on the dry side of damp but now his feet were becoming great lumps of clay as the earth stuck to them like glue. The water must have at one time covered the entrance hole and seeped down into the burrow. As he went deeper the earth got wetter and quite suddenly he found he was actually in water with his front feet. His little den was flooded and there was nothing he could do other than extricate himself and to wait for it to dry out. At least he was able to wash the mud off his feet before canefully turning round and finding his way back to the entrance.

Barrie-Bear and Mr. Weaver were sitting on the bank enjoying the warm penetrating sunshine and were duly briefed by Mr. Weasel on the state of his domain. "Good" said Barrie—Bear. "What do you mean good" asked Mr. Weasel, who was rather hurt by Barrie-Bear's rather terse remark. "My house is flooded and all you can say is 'good'." "Well - er — I didn't mean good-good" replied Barrie-Bear. "I meant good no serious damage has occurred," he said, "I didn't mean to imply that it was good that your den had been flooded." Against his better judgment he told Mr. Weasel that he could come and stay with him for a day or two until it had dried out, that is as long as you supply your own food, he added remembering that his stocks were getting rather low. "Well, if you are sure you don't mind" said Mr. Weasel, "I would be most grateful for some temporary shelter, thank you."

There was a gentle fluttering overhead and Mr. Robin appeared feeling very chirpy and said that his little nest was just as he had left it and added he thought everyone should live in trees thus escaping the horror of floods and the awful havoc they could create. "Suppose your tree was struck by lightning and fell down" said Barrie- Bear. Mr. Robin hadn't thought of that but said that it was most unlikely and that he was prepared to take that risk. "I think we should get back to Mrs. Rabbit" said Mr. Beaver, scenting that the atmosphere was becoming a trifle sticky.

When they arrived they found that Rory had been put to bed with his leg in a splint and a lovely tea was waiting for them in front of a roaring log fire. Jason was still fast asleep, no doubt dreaming of his daring rescue operation.

Chapter V - In Search of a Dream
--------------------------------

After an excellent tea and with a feeling of being rather more full than was good for him, Barrie-Bear took Mr. Beaver aside and told him that he thought that an extra—ordinary meeting should be held, if possible to-morrow, to discuss the present crisis and to formulate a plan of action in line with the proposal regarding the setting up of the new community. "Quite right Barrie-Bear" said Mr. Beaver, "the events of the past twentyfour hours have certainly called for some immediate action. Where shall we meet?" "I would suggest that we use the same clearing in the forest that we used yesterday" said Barrie-Bear. "Good idea" said Mr. Beaver getting quite excited. "I will go and tell everybody to be there first thing in the morning" and off he went at a brisk pace to inform the others.

Barrie-Bear decided to return home as he had a great deal of thinking to do before the meeting the following day. He plodded off down the forest trail, his mind jumping from one thing to another, which made concentration difficult. It was a sort of snuffling noise that prompted him to stop and on looking round he saw Mr. Weasel coming after him at great speed. "Of course" he muttered to himself "I offered to put Weasel up for a few days. Oh bother, I can think so much better on my own. Ah well, one cannot be unneighbourly and anyway he can be good company." "I thought that you had forgotten all about me" puffed Mr. Weasel with a tone of sadness in his voice. If he were truthful he had but he turned to Mr. Weasel and said "Me? Forget? Of course I didn't. I was merely going on ahead to put the place in order" replied Barrie—Bear. His conscience was pricking him all over, but he soon came to the conclusion that a "White Lie" was preferable to hurting Mr. Weasel's feelings.

They covered the remaining part of the journey together, and on the way Barrie—Bear explained about the meeting the next day. Mr. Weasel was remarkably understanding and said that if Barrie-Bear didn't mind he would see to all the household chores and cooking, while he worked out what he was going to say at the meeting. "That would be most kind" said Barrie—Bear, "I don't suppose we shall want any more to eat to—night," he continued, "but I would be grateful if you would tidy the place up a bit and perhaps light a fire - my brain always works better in a warm, cosy atmosphere." "I will do that straight away" said Mr. Weasel. They went inside, and sure enough it was quite obvious that Barrie—Bear did little or no housework.

His 'residence‘ comprised just one room which was sparsely furnished, although what there was looked comfortable. In addition to his wooden chest, he had a solid looking circular oak table, two well-worn easy chairs and an oval shaped bed which looked rather like a dog basket on legs, at one end of the room was a cupboard built into the wall, with shelves groaning under the weight of several jars of nuts, berries and honey.

"I thought your food supply was getting rather low" said Mr. Weasel who was already busying himself and looking for some- thing to light the fire with. "You never know when you might be snowed up or incapacitated" said Barrie-Bear, "and therefore I always keep a certain amount in reserve just in case." The fact that it was mid-summer didn't seem to matter or that in a few months' time it would be berrying and nutting time again, but Mr. Weasel thought that at least he could tidy the shelves so that there would be some storage room for the new harvest. However that could wait. He found some dry sticks at the bottom of the cupboard and set about lighting the fire. Barrie-Bear had a few logs left over from the winter and soon he was reclining in his favourite chair, his eyes closed and his paws pressed together as though seeking divine inspiration.

The fire burned brightly and Mr. Weasel enjoyed himself dusting and cleaning. Then he spied it, under a stone which he had inadvertently moved with his foot -- the key to Barrie-Bear's chest. Surely he wouldn't mind if he had a quick peep. He looked across to Barrie-Bear who was sitting quite motionless, and thought that he was asleep. He coughed quietly but not even his ears twitched, Should he or shouldn't he? He knew of course, that he shouldn't but on the other hand, he would not be committing a crime or doing harm to anyone, so he decided to risk it. He picked up the key, went over to the chest, and by standing on tiptoe he could quite easily reach the lock. He turned the key noiselessly, released the lock and pushed the lid upwards. It wouldn't move at first but then, quite suddenly it did and creaked loudly as it did so. Mr. Weasel almost let it drop, his heart was thumping and his legs were trembling. Barrie-Bear grunted gently and turned in the chair. Mr. Weasel held his breath and closed his eyes - he thought his little lungs would burst. But then, he heard a gentle snoring rather like a purr, and knew that Barrie-Bear had gone off to sleep again. He lowered the lid, secured the lock and returned the key to its hiding place. He felt a sense of great relief and resolved that he would never do anything like that again. He too, was feeling the strain and thought that he would settle down for a rest in the other chair.

He must have gone off to sleep straightaway, for the next thing he knew was Barrie-Bear prodding him in the tummy and saying that he was feeling hungry. He opened his eyes, stretched and yawned, and then went off to the cupboard to fetch some refreshments. Mr. Weasel was still full of Mrs. Rabbit's tea, but he roused himself and fetched a bowl of nuts and berries together with a jar of honey which Barrie-Bear consumed as though he had had nothing to eat for a week. "Could I go to bed now?" asked Mr. Weasel, who was feeling very weary. "Yes" said Barrie-Bear. "Will you be alright in that chair by the fire?" "I think I could sleep anywhere" replied Mr. Weasel who would have happily settled for a bed of nails. "Excellent" said Barrie-Bear, "we shall have to be up early in the morning, so I will wish you Good-night." "Goodnight" said Mr. Weasel whose eyes were already half—closed. Barrie-Bear finished off his jar of honey, patted his tummy with a gesture of satisfaction and curled up in his bed feeling confident for the morrow.

Mr. Weasel slept like a log until just after daybreak, when he turned over and was awakened by a sharp pricking sensation in his side. He almost jumped out of the chair thinking that he had been bitten by something. On closer inspection, he discovered a broken spring in the chair which was protruding from the well worn upholstery. At least the rude awakening had got him up rather earlier than anticipated, and before waking Barrie-Bear, he prepared some breakfast.

He went over to Barrie-Bear's bed to find him on his back with legs and arms in the air and snoring very gently. It was a shame to wake him, but he poked him softly in the side which prompted just a slight grunt. Mr. Weasel gave a harder poke and this time Barrie—Bear rolled over and rubbed his eyes. Gradually they opened and he murmured "What on earth are you doing here Mr. Weasel?" "I spent the night here - remember? and now it is time to get up - it's a lovely morning." Barrie—Bear slowly came to his senses, and said, "Of course - good morning Mr. Weasel - thank goodness the weather is alright, we had better eat some breakfast and get off to the meeting." "Breakfast is all ready" said Mr. Weasel. "So it is" exclaimed Barrie-Bear. "Thank you Mr. Weasel - you must come and stay more often." They took their time and when another honey jar had been licked clear, they set off for the meeting.

When they arrived at the forest clearing, Mr. Beaver was the only one there. However, it was early yet and no doubt the others would be along shortly. "Good morning" said Mr. Beaver, "what a lovely day." "Good morning" answered Barrie-Bear and Mr. Weasel in unison and "Yes, it is," continued Barrie-Bear. "How is young Rory?" "He didn't have a very good night" said Mr. Beaver, and Mrs. Beaver and Mrs. Squirrel will be staying with him this morning. Mr. & Mrs. Rabbit should be here soon though," he went on. As he spoke, Mr. Robin arrived saying that he had just passed Heigh and Jason and that he understood that Mr. & Mrs. Mouse and old Mr. & Mrs. Owl were also coming. "Excellent" said Barrie-Bear, "it sounds as though we shall be well represented."

Within half an hour, all who were expected had arrived, and Barrie-Bear brought the meeting to order and began to speak. "I have called you together this morning" he commenced, "because the events of the past twentyfour hours have brought matters to some- thing of a head. The sudden storms and floods yesterday afternoon have totally destroyed some of our homes and badly damaged others, and it seems to me that we should implement the proposal agreed yesterday to set up our new community with immediate effect. It would be a waste of time and effort," he continued, "to embark on a rebuilding programme here, when we are committed to moving in the near future anyway." He paused long enough for Mr. Owl to inter- ject, "What you say makes good sense, Barrie-Bear, but first we shall have to decide where to go." "Exactly," said Barrie-Bear, who was now feeling quite excited about the next part of his speech. "Among my family heirlooms," he announced, "is a telescope which used to belong to my Grandfather, and if we could somehow set it up down on the coast," he said, “we could carry out a survey."” "I could carry it on my back" said Heigh, "or better still, perhaps we could borrow a trap, and then we could have a good day out at the seaside." Jason asked if he could go, and of course Jimmy and Timmy wanted to as well. No doubt the same could be said for the Beaver boys except poor Rory. Barrie-Bear was kind but firm. "I think," he said as nicely as he could, "that if Heigh would be good enough to take us, we had better restrict the numbers on this trip and I would suggest that, Mr. Beaver, Mr. Weasel and myself go, if possible, to-morrow, to see if we can find a suitable place to move to. If we are successful, then everybody will be needed to make the necessary preparations." His suggestion met with everyone's approval and Heigh was asked to find a trap and report with it at Barrie- Bear's house to-morrow morning at eight o'clock.

Chapter XI - In Search of a Dream
---------------------------------

Promptly at eight o'clock the next morning Heigh pulled up outside Barrie—Bear's house with full harness on and pulling a gaily-painted trap behind him. Thanks to Mr. Weasel, who was as good as an alarm clock first thing in the morning, both he and Barrie—Bear were ready and waiting. It was a really lovely morning with a clear, blue sky and the sun was just rising over the tall tree-tops. It was undoubtedly going to be very hot and Mr. Weasel had taken the trouble to prepare a few snacks for the journey.

"Hello Barrie-Bear and Mr. Weasel" said Heigh, "what do you think of our piece of transportation?" "Excellent" replied Barrie—Bear, "you have done very well Heigh, where on earth did you find the trap?" "It belongs to a farmer who lives quite close to my stable, and I just happened to mention that I was looking for one to go to the coast with to—morrow and he said that I could borrow his. He hasn't used it for years, but he got it out, cleaned and oiled it and also lent me the harness. I have never pulled a trap before, and it felt very strange at first, but I think I have got the hang of it now." "It will suit our purpose very well," said Barrie-Bear, "and as we have a long way to go and a lot to do, I think we had better collect the others and get off." He and Mr. Weasel climbed aboard and with Barrie-Bear holding the reins, Heigh galloped off at such a speed that Barrie-Bear and Mr. Weasel almost fell off.

It took them a little while for them to get their 'sea legs' but by the time they arrived at Mrs. Rabbit's house, they were feeling considerably more confident. Mr. Beaver was all ready waiting and with a quick 'Hello and Good-bye' to the Rabbits, Heigh was off again and this time heading for the coast. After about two miles, Heigh settled down to a gentle trot and it was a lovely feeling jogging through the lovely countryside with the sun on their backs and a warm, though refreshing breeze, in their faces. Although Barrie-Bear had a hold on the reins, he had no idea how to use them, and Heigh had to stop occasionally to ask for directions.

When they had gone about half the way, Barrie-Bear asked Heigh to stop. "We will have some refreshments now," he said, and lifting the basket which Mr. Weasel had prepared, he stepped down, closely followed by Mr. Beaver and Mr. Weasel. Mrs. Rabbit had kindly prepared some provisions and they sat down on the grass with a good supply of cake, honey and fruit. Heigh had also taken the precaution of bringing along a bag of oats and bran which he much appreciated. He was so hungry that he could have eaten the lot, but thought he had better leave some for the journey home.

After about half an hour's rest, they were off again and making good progress towards the sea. As he came round a sharp corner at the top of a steep hill, Heigh suddenly gave a shout and set off down the other side with sudden enthusiasm. The others, who were feeling somewhat sleepy after their meal, were startled by the dramatic change of speed and wondered what was making Heigh go so fast. They only had to look in front of them to realise what had happened. In the distance, beyond the fields and little villages, they were able to catch a glimpse of the sea. There was no holding Heigh now, he knew they were nearly there, and he was determined to finish the journey in record time.

It was exactly 11 o'clock when Heigh pulled up near the edge of some cliffs and they were able to stretch their legs. Mr. Weasel and Mr. Beaver unfastened the trap and relieved Heigh of his harness while Barrie-Bear started to set up his telescope. Although it was turning into a really hot summer's day, the visibility was not as good as they had hoped, but undaunted, they set about surveying the scene. Below them was a gently sloping sandy beach and the Sea, which was as calm as a mill pond, was lapping the shore rhythmically and gently.

They could not have found a better position from which to spy out the landscape. With the naked eye, only miles and miles of sea was visible, but with the aid of the telescope, they were able to pick out one or two sailing boats. As Barrie-Bear gradually moved the telescope, he was able to focus onto a large black object which was quite obviously some distance away. He began to get quite excited and the others kept saying, "What is it, Barrie-Bear - what can you see?" "Wait a minute," said Barrie-Bear, "I cannot quite get whatever it is into focus and the telescope won't keep still." "Oh bother, I've lost it -- no — wait - there it is — What on earth?" "Do tell us what it is" said Mr. Weasel who was jumping up and down with excitement. "I just don't know" muttered Barrie—Bear, "it's a long black shape which appears to be moving very slowly. See what you make of it Mr. Beaver." Mr. Beaver put his eye to the lens and couldn't see anything at first, but after a little adjustment, he was able to see the outline of the large object which Barrie-Bear had spotted. "It's huge" said Mr. Beaver, "and it is certainly moving very, very slowly. I know what it isn't, anyway," he continued, “it isn't an island, unless it is a floating one" he said. "Of course islands don't float" said Barrie-Bear although he couldn't really see any reason why they shouldn't. "It must be a very large ship or a very large fish". "It isn't a fish either" replied Mr. Beaver, "it's got smoke coming out from the middle of it." "It could be a smoked trout," Heigh declared. Mr. Weasel thought his remark very funny and shook with laughter. "Don't be so stupid" said Barrie-Bear who thought the joke in rather bad taste, considering the seriousness of their mission. "Never mind all that," exclaimed Mr. Beaver, "I think I have found something rather more interesting."

The mist had cleared, and he pointed towards a headland which until now had been almost obscured. Beyond the headland, they could make out the vague shape of something which looked like a fat cigar. With the aid of the telescope, they were able to establish that what they could see was land. Heigh wanted to have a look, but he was not allowed to because, being so clumsy, it was thought that he might damage the telescope. "We cannot really see enough from here," said Barrie- Bear. "What we need is a small boat, and go and have a proper look." "Where on earth are we going to get a boat from?" asked Mr. Weasel. They scanned the beach below them and in a small inlet almost below where they were standing, was not one boat but three.

"There we are," said Barrie—Bear, "they will do very nicely." "But, we cannot just go and help ourselves" replied Mr. Beaver. "Of course not, but there must be someone around whom we could ask. Heigh, you will have to stay here and guard the telescope, while we go and make enquiries." Poor Heigh, he realised that he was too big to go to sea in one of those little dinghys, and with a sad expression on his face, he could do nothing but reluctantly agree.

The others made their way down the cliff face via a steep and very rough track. When they arrived on the beach, they went straight to the boats, which had obviously been in use very recently. They were still wet, and some fish were swimming round in a bucket which had been placed in the shade behind one of them. There was no-one in sight and Barrie-Bear, who was anxious to set sail, wondered to himself if the owner would mind very much if they borrowed one for an hour or two. "Would I mind?" he asked himself, imagining that he was the owner of the boats. "I don't think so", he thought as long as the person who borrowed it returned it undamaged, especially if there was a good reason for borrowing it. He turned it over in his mind for quite some time and after a lengthy private conversation with himself, he decided that they would take one of the boats, and risk having to explain his action to the owner later.

"Come on," he said, "let's get this one into the water." Mr. Beaver and Mr. Weasel were not at all happy about borrowing someone else's boat without permission, but they agreed that there was nothing else they could do, if they were to inspect the island that day. Together they pulled the boat down to the water's edge and before he could get his feet wet, Barrie-Bear was on board, sitting in the stern with his hand on the tiller. "Push" he said to Mr. Weasel and Mr. Beaver. They pushed and pushed until all of a sudden they were afloat and Mr. Weasel and Mr. Beaver were up to their waists in the water and had to scramble into the boat before they were out of their depth. None of them knew very much about boats but at least they had had the experience of the raft during the floods, and they soon rigged up the sail and were making good progress.

The sea was still very calm, but as they got further from the shore, they could feel the breeze stiffening a little, and the sail which had been flapping, was now billowing out like the chest of a puffed-up Robin. The little boat bobbed up and down with the movement of the waves, and the three explorers were beginning to find out that being at sea was rather different to floating on a flood. The beach now seemed a long way away, and Heigh looked no bigger than a large dog. They waved to him and Heigh swished his tail in response. The island was a lot further out to sea than any of them had imagined and after an hour's sailing, it still seemed a long way to go. Barrie-Bear was a little worried and wondered whether they should turn back, but quickly decided against it, as they were unlikely to have another such perfect day for amateur boating. Soon they rounded the headland which they had seen through the telescope, and with a final wave to Heigh, they concentrated on getting to the island as quickly as possible.

After a further half an hour they were able to see it very much clearer. It was quite large and with its white beaches and thick with trees, it looked rather like a green blancmange ringed with cream. Quite suddenly there was great excitement on board, and Barrie-Bear directed the little boat straight towards an attractive crescent-shaped beach which was so lovely that they could almost see the letters spelling out 'Welcome' in the sun-bleached sand. Closer and closer they sailed and were able to see the island quite clearly. The odd thing was that no-one nor any sign of life was visible. The only sound they could hear was the gentle flapping of the sail and the peaceful rhythmic lapping of the sea.

The tide was coming in and when about fifty yards from the shore, Barrie-Bear ordered the sail to be lowered, and from then on they just drifted until a gradual crunching noise informed them that the boat had grounded, and that they had arrived. Mr. Weasel jumped ashore, closely followed by Mr. Beaver, and together they pulled the boat on to the sand and secured it to a tree stump with a rope which they found in the bows. Having ensured that it was safely anchored, they climbed the short distance to a ridge at the top of the beach and stopped to get their bearings and decide how best to survey the island. They did not have a lot of time to spare, and Barrie-Bear decided that they would split up, and each go in different directions, and meet again in an hour's time. Mr. Weasel would take the western half, Mr. Beaver the eastern and Barrie-Bear would venture north- wards. Mr. Weasel and Mr. Beaver decided to follow the ridge around the coast as far as possible so that, as long as they kept the sea in they would be able to find their way back alright. Barrie- Bear said that he would mark the trees on his route for the same purpose. With a brief "Goodbye - see you later", they started off on their various routes wondering who and what they might see. Barrie-Bear was also interested in finding out the 'berry' situation on the island as he was feeling decidedly peckish.

Any feelings of anxiety were quickly dispelled, as none of them either met or saw anybody, and the things they saw only filled them with an overwhelm- ing desire and a strong conviction that this is where they must settle. When they returned, they were so excited, they could barely speak. "It's beautiful," said Mr. Weasel, "and it doesn't look as though any- one else is living here." "I didn't see a soul either" said Mr. Beaver, "and I found an ideal place to build ourselves some new homes" he went on. "There are plenty of materials and a complete absence of civilisation. I think it is just the place we are looking for." It wasn't really necessary for Barrie-Bear to say that were was an abundance of food on the island, as one look at his tummy was enough to speak for itself. "I noticed several different sorts of berries," he said nonchalantly, "but I thought it wise to sample a few to make sure they are edible," he continued. "I certainly cast my vote in favour of emigrating here." They were unanimous, and with no further ado, returned to the boat, which was now floating on the incoming tide.

They scrambled aboard and cast off the rope from the tree stump. The wind had risen a little since they arrived, and it was with difficulty and indifferent seamanship, that they made their way back to the mainland. The sea was quite choppy and although he wouldn't admit it, Barrie-Bear felt quite sea-sick. Mr. Beaver who knew rather more about sailing than Barrie-Bear, could see that he had a touch of mal—de-mer, and suggested that he took over the tiller while Barrie-Bear had a rest. "That would be kind" said Barrie-Bear, who was somewhat relieved to hand over to a more experienced sailor. With Mr. Beaver at the helm, they put on considerable speed, as he was better able to steer the boat using the wind to full advantage.

They were delighted to round the headland and see Heigh on the cliff top racing up and down for all he was worth. Heigh had spotted them first and as he had spent a hot and rather boring afternoon, he was even more pleased than they were. It wasn't long before they beached the boat and they were all very relieved to see that it hadn't been missed. They were very careful to replace it exactly in the same position and made sure that there was no damage. They then climbed the cliff and rejoined Heigh who was eagerly awaiting them.

"What was it like?" asked Heigh, "you have been a long time!". "It is absolutely what we are looking for," replied Barrie-Bear, and as quickly as he could, he described the island to him. "How am I going to get there?" inquired Heigh sadly, "it is too far to swim and I am too big for a boat," he said - almost with tears in his eyes. "Don't you worry" said Barrie-Bear, "we shall have to construct a large raft, big enough to carry everyone, including you, Heigh." "You mean I shall be able to come after all" said Heigh, cheering up a little. "Of course" said Barrie-Bear, "we will not leave you behind. But now we must set off for home before it gets dark." "Alright" said Heigh, now back to his old cheerful self. "We shall go like the wind." He wasn't joking - he galloped nearly all the way, not even stopping for half-way refreshments.

- - -

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License. To view a copy of this license, visit
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
